[docs] Add page for the `sx` prop (#26769)
mui-org/material-ui: docs/src/pages/system/the-sx-prop/the-sx-prop.md

# The `sx` prop

> <p class="description">The `sx` prop is a shortcut for defining custom style overrides for the components, using the theme.</p>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<p class="description">The `sx` prop is a shortcut for defining custom style that have access to the theme.</p>
```
Is this better?

The property is a superset of CSS that packages [all the style functions](/system/basics/#all-inclusive) that are exposed in `@material-ui/system`.
You can specify any valid CSS using this prop.

## Example

{{"demo": "pages/system/the-sx-prop/Example.js", "bg": true, "defaultCodeOpen": false}}

On the example above, you can notice that some of the values are not valid CSS properties.

> This is because, the CSS properties are mapped to specific paths in the theme.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This is because the `sx` keys are mapped to specific properties of the theme.
```

> In the following sections, you will learn how different CSS properties are mapped to specigic parts of the theme.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the following sections, you will learn how different `sx` properties are mapped to specific parts of the theme.
```

## Borders

The `border` property can receive only a number as a value and and it will create a solid black border using the number as the width.

```jsx

> <Box sx={{ border: 1 }} /> // eqivalent as border: '1px solid black'

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<Box sx={{ border: 1 }} /> // equivalent to border: '1px solid black'
```
also few times below

```jsx
<Box sx={{ displayPrint: 'none' }} /> // eqivalent as '@media print': { display: 'none' }
```

## Grid

The grid CSS properties `gap`, `rowGap` and `columnGap` multiply the values they receive by the `theme.spacing` value (the default for the value is `8px`).

```jsx
<Box sx={{ gap: 2 }} /> // eqivalent as gap: theme => theme.spacing(2)
```

## Palette

The `color` and `backgroundColor` properties can receive a string, which represents the path in the `theme.palette`.

```jsx
<Box sx={{ color: 'primary.main' }} /> // eqivalent as color: theme => theme.palette.primary.main
```

The `backgroundColor` property is also available trough its alias `bgcolor`.

```jsx
<Box sx={{ bgcolor: 'primary.main' }} /> // eqivalent as backgroundColor: theme => theme.palette.primary.main
```

## Positions

The `zIndex` property maps its value to the `theme.zIndex` value.

```jsx
<Box sx={{ zIndex: 'tooltip' }} /> // eqivalent as backgroundColor: theme => theme.zIndex.tooltip
```

## Shadows

The `boxShadow` property maps its value to the `theme.shadows` value.

```jsx
<Box sx={{ boxShadow: 1 }} /> // eqivalent as boxShadow: theme => theme.shadows[1]
```

## Sizing

> The sizing properties: `width`, `height`, `minHeight`, `maxHeight`, `minWidth` and `maxWidth` are using the following custom transform function for the value:

Reviewer 2: This, in my opinion can be super confusing (the implementation, not the docs). IMO we would be better off allowing explicitly setting "25%" instead of 0.25.

Author: We already accept percent values (and any other regular CSS value). The values between 0 and 1 are complementary, so I don't think it is that big a deal, but I see your point :) @oliviertassinari initially implemented this logic I think, so he may have more input on it.

Reviewer: Honestly, I don't like the fraction conversion to percentage at all. It is counter intuitive with normal css. Anyway, I don't expect us to change it right now.

# The `sx` prop

<p class="description">The `sx` prop is a shortcut for defining custom style that has access to the theme.</p>
The property is a superset of CSS that packages [all the style functions](/system/basics/#all-inclusive) that are exposed in `@material-ui/system`.
You can specify any valid CSS using this prop.

## Example

> {{"demo": "pages/system/the-sx-prop/Example.js", "bg": true, "defaultCodeOpen": false}}

Reviewer 3: To make it easier for developers to see it in action?

```suggestion
{{"demo": "pages/system/the-sx-prop/Example.js", "bg": true, "defaultCodeOpen": true}}
```

On the example above, you can notice that some of the values are not valid CSS properties.
This is because the `sx` keys are mapped to specific properties of the theme.
In the following sections, you will learn how different `sx` properties are mapped to specific parts of the theme.

> ## Borders

Author: Done

The `border` property can receive only a number as a value and and it will create a solid black border using the number as the width.

```jsx
<Box sx={{ border: 1 }} /> // equivalent to border: '1px solid black'
```

The `borderColor` property can receive a string, which represents the path in the `theme.palette`.

```jsx

> <Box sx={{ borderColor: 'primary.main' }} /> // equivalent as borderColor: theme => theme.palette.primary.main

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<Box sx={{ borderColor: 'primary.main' }} /> // equivalent to borderColor: theme => theme.palette.primary.main
```
+ few times below

> <Box sx={{ borderColor: 'primary.main' }} /> // equivalent to borderColor: theme => theme.palette.primary.main

Author: Interesting, I was checking this on my laptop screen and all of them are rendered. Should we move the comment on the next line maybe?

> <Box sx={{ borderColor: 'primary.main' }} /> // equivalent to borderColor: theme => theme.palette.primary.main

Author: Or maybe change it to:
```
<Box sx={{ border: 1 }} /> // border: '1px solid black'
```

> <Box sx={{ borderColor: 'primary.main' }} /> // equivalent to borderColor: theme => theme.palette.primary.main

Reviewer 3: I'm rendering the page fullwidth on my 13" inc screen. A new line sounds great.

> <Box sx={{ borderColor: 'primary.main' }} /> // equivalent to borderColor: theme => theme.palette.primary.main

Author: Updated

```

The `borderRadius` properties multiples the value it receives by the `theme.shape.borderRadius` value (the default for the value is `4px`).

```jsx
<Box sx={{ borderRadius: 2 }} /> // equivalent as borderRadius: theme => 2 * theme.shape.borderRadius
```

_Head to the [borders page](/system/borders) for more examples._

## Display

> The `displayPrint` property allows you to specify CSS `display` value, that will be applied only for priting.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `displayPrint` property allows you to specify CSS `display` value, that will be applied only for printing.
```

<Box sx={{ zIndex: 'tooltip' }} /> // equivalent to backgroundColor: theme => theme.zIndex.tooltip
```

_Head to the [positions page](/system/positions) for more examples._

## Shadows

The `boxShadow` property maps its value to the `theme.shadows` value.

```jsx
<Box sx={{ boxShadow: 1 }} /> // equivalent to boxShadow: theme => theme.shadows[1]
```

_Head to the [shadows page](/system/shadows) for more examples._

## Sizing

The sizing properties: `width`, `height`, `minHeight`, `maxHeight`, `minWidth` and `maxWidth` are using the following custom transform function for the value:

```js
function transform(value) {
  return value <= 1 ? `${value * 100}%` : value;
}
```

Basically, if the value is between [0, 1] it is converted to percent, otherwise it is directly set on the CSS property.

```jsx
<Box sx={{ width: 0.5 }} /> // equivalent to width: '50%'
<Box sx={{ width: 20 }} /> // equivalent to width: '20px'
```

_Head to the [sizing page](/system/sizing) for more examples._

## Spacing

The spacing properties: `margin`, `padding` and the corresponding longhand properties multiply the values they receive by the `theme.spacing` value (the default for the value is `8px`).

```jsx

> <Box sx={{ margin: 2 }} /> // equivalent to margin: theme => theme.spacing(2)

Reviewer 3: Does it mean that, once we merge these changes, in https://deploy-preview-26769--material-ui.netlify.app/system/spacing/#transformation, we can remove the `sx` and document the props flat :D?

Author: I like that we have one page as a shortcut for defining all `sx` theme props, and then separate packages with more details for each property... I don't understand whether we really need that extensive explanation as done in https://deploy-preview-26769--material-ui.netlify.app/system/spacing/#transformation tough... Will take a look on that PR

Reviewer 3: Oh, I see, OK fair.
